I'm at one of the most heavily guarded
borders on Earth.
Look at that.
So, you're probably wondering what I'm
doing in a gift shop. Your very own bits
of a demolished [music] guard post. I'm
definitely getting one of those.
My name is Professor Hannah Fry, a
mathematician and writer with a lifelong
habit of following my curiosity,
especially when things are deeply
deliciously interesting.
>> Kitchen yoga for you.
>> Dianisis would approve.
>> Some people travel to see the world. I
travel to question the forces that shape
entire nations. [music]
>> Welcome to South Korea. I wanted to come
here for their optimal urban planning.
>> It sort of feels quite chaotic. I'll be
honest with you.
>> I want to meet the people with
unexpected stories [music] to tell.
>> I cannot imagine going through that as a
young boy. No.
>> And dig up the peculiar and wonderful
[music] treasures that reveal what a
country is made of.
I'm looking at it and thinking, "What
beautiful geometry."
>> This is my way to make sense of what
makes our world go round.
This is South Korea,
home to misty mountains,
volcanic islands,
and ancient traditions centuries deep.
But let's be honest,
that's not what it's known for now. Over
[music]
the last few decades, this country of
just 50 million has become a global
powerhouse of modern popular culture.
K-pop has become this [music] global
sensation. Korean drama gets squillions
of views worldwide. You almost certainly
have Korean technology in your house
already. And if you haven't been eating
kimchi and Korean [music] fried chicken,
you will be soon.
It's all part of something called
[music] halu or the Korean way.
From food and film to music and tech, a
tidal surge of Korean culture has swept
the globe.
So, how [music] did this small nation
transform itself into a cultural
superpower?
to find out. I'm starting in the capital
city, Soul, where tonight I [music] have
got tickets to an exclusive broadcast.
And no, it's not a boy band.
Not technically.
It's quite [cheering] hard to believe
that I'm about to watch many hours of
competitive video games, but this is a
packed out arena with a million more
people watching online.
>> [music]
>> Welcome to South Korea.
I've thrown myself into the screaming,
flashing world of esports.
>> It's the fastest growing spectator sport
on the planet worth billions of dollars.
And it started right here in South
Korea.
But frankly, I've got no idea what's
going on. So, I'm meeting former pro
player Wad.
>> This is amazing.
>> At the ripe old age of 27, he's already
retired to become a commentator.
>> Production values are amazing. Those
screens, look at this. It's really cool.
>> Like colosum.
>> Like the coliseum. I really like that.
>> They are the warriors and we are the
viewers.
>> What's on show is pure spectacle.
Flawless coordination, split-second
strategy, lightning reflexes, all from
10 men in swivel chairs.
Games vary. And in this one, teammates
work together to storm the enemy base.
>> They all look really young. How old are
they?
>> 21, 22.
>> Here, playing computer games very, very
well can turn you into a national
celebrity.
>> In Korea, they appear in TV shows a lot
and YouTube content. So, it's like a
idol culture, you know,
>> like not dissimilar to how people treat
K-pop.
>> Yeah.
>> For the fans, part of the appeal is the
skill on show.
>> He's going to win. They're going to win.
They're going to win. [music]
>> Athletes live together and train
together, improving their strategy and
honing their reaction times. [music]
Let's see how I measure up.
>> Let's make it fair. You can do it to me
first.
>> Okay.
>> So, all right. Hold it up there.
>> And then I drop. Right.
>> Yeah.
>> This is a simple but revealing test.
>> Okay. Ready?
>> Okay.
>> That's pretty good. That's pretty good.
I reckon you're going to do better.
>> So much pressure, though.
>> Ready?
[music]
Eight.
Studies have shown that elite esports
players
react significantly faster than the
average person.
>> I might go back to prom.
[music]
>> Right now, South Korean teams are the
best in the world. But the story of how
this country became the birthplace and
leader of the professional game
actually begins bizarrely with a
spectacular financial crash.
In 1997, South [music] Korea's economy
collapsed as part of the Asian financial
crisis.
Businesses [music] folded. Unemployment
soared.
To help the country recover, the
government invested in a new [music]
fangle technology,
broadband internet.
While most of the world was busy arguing
with their dialup modems,
Korea took a chance on wiring the
nation.
It was a radical move. But the idea
[music] was simple. Fast internet equals
economic enterprise.
And to be fair, it worked.
Enter the PC bang.
>> Oh my goodness. Me a comfortable chair.
>> Yeah, I'm exro player, so this is my
comfort zone. This is your This is your
office.
>> Exactly.
>> By the early 2000s, South Koreans could
walk into any one of over 20,000 PC
banks and rent access to some of the
fastest internet on the planet.
>> You can come whenever you want, pay a
little bit, and then you get to play
online games, and you can order good
quality of food. It's 24/7.
>> 24/7.
>> Yes. You can stay here for like forever.
>> No reason to ever leave.
>> No reason to [music] leave here.
How common are PC banks in South Korea?
>> You can find different PC bank every 5
minutes walk. [music]
>> Really?
>> Yes. There are so many of them.
>> Elsewhere, internet cafes died quietly
in the mid [music] 2000s.
In South Korea, PC bangs evolved into a
national pastime. And part of the reason
might trace back to something
surprisingly analog,
geography.
You see, over 70% of the landscape here
is mountainous. Cities are densely
packed, leaving little outdoor space for
things like a simple kickabout.
When you think about [music] UK, it's
really easy to just go on a field and
play football with your friends. But in
Korea, [music] it's really hard to get
good quality fields outside. But we have
great PC bong. So, it's really natural
that we have good gamers and good PC
environment.
>> That's interesting. Like, it's almost
that there's this this human instinct to
compete and watch really exceptional
competitors
>> in competition with each other. And it
just so happens that this is the
environment that you found yourselves
in.
>> Can I have a go?
>> Yeah, sure.
>> I want to be a really cool girl. With
the space to compete and lightningast
internet, Korean kids were honing their
skills long before the rest of us caught
on. attack. Yes, there we go. There we
go.
>> I'm absolutely loving this now.
First came the informal competitions,
then the leagues, then the television
cameras, [cheering]
and now they attract global audiences of
over 50 million. [cheering]
Before
I got here, I read that all of the pro
players from other countries, they tend
to be really posh kids, right? You you
need to be quite wealthy to be able to
afford a really amazing computer and a
and a high-speed internet connection.
But here, because you've got these PC
banks where it's like a dollar an hour,
and because you've got densely populated
urban areas with nowhere outside to
play, it's often the poorer kids who end
up being the professionals.
When you look at it like that, I mean,
this is a bit like Brazilians being
really good at football or Canadians
being really good [music] at ice
skating.
Esports is now firmly part of the global
obsession with all things Korea.
The internet helped accelerate things,
but the real foundations were laid even
before the fiber [music] optics
when they rolled the dice on an entirely
different bold idea.
[music]
The crash that sparked [music] esports
was just a blip on a much bigger journey
of economic success.
In just 60 years, South Korea went from
one of the poorest countries [music] on
Earth to one of the richest. A leader in
consumer tech, robotics, car making, and
more.
But this wasn't luck. It was strategy.
And it started [music] with a bold and
risky experiment.
>> We're living in the future.
>> Does it make me a lite to think that a
person could do that much more
effectively and quickly? For the inside
story, I'm meeting business analyst John
Lee at a bar that's technically
advanced, if not entirely efficient.
>> Talk to me about power
>> in South Korea and businesses in
particular.
>> Sure.
>> Who who runs everything?
>> Well, it's not just a single who, it's
several who's several very big powerful
families. Now, you've heard of these
companies names. Samsung, Hyundai, LG.
These are South Korea's largest
companies. All of them led by family
dynasties.
>> They're known as the Shables, a handful
of familyrun companies whose value make
up around 80% [music] of South Korea's
economy.
>> Over here we have itong. He is the
chairman of Samsung.
>> They do more than phones here, right?
>> Oh, definitely. You've got your Samsung
hospitals. You've got your Samsung life
insurance. You've got your Samsung
credit card. In fact, whenever Koreans
want to pjoratively refer to their own
country, we call ourselves the Republic
of Samsung.
>> Wow. Okay. Others include the Chay
family, owners of SK.
>> They're making memory chips,
semiconductors, AI,
>> the Shins of Retail Empire Lotty.
>> He is 70, I believe.
>> The coups of LG, [music]
>> the youngest of the CEO,
>> and the Chung family of Hyundai. When it
comes to automobiles, ships, even tanks,
this is the man that you want to talk
to.
>> Of course, the shables didn't appear out
of nowhere.
>> Back in the 60s, the government was
broke, but desperate to industrialize,
so they took out huge loans from abroad.
But rather than spread those millions of
dollars around, it went to a select
number of small familyrun firms with
strict instructions.
And the government said, "Okay, so we're
going [music] to give you this money and
we're going to give you a tax breaks. In
exchange, we want you to align your
corporate interests with national
interests and sell and manufacture what
we tell you to. Ships, cars, [music]
electronics, whatever they could sell to
the rest of the world."
Samsung went from selling dried fish and
noodles to making washing machines and
TVs. and LG made toothpaste [music]
before producing Korea's first radio.
That's I mean that is quite
strategically genius. It's not quite
capitalism. It's [music] sort of like
>> stateled capitalism.
>> Exactly.
>> Stateled capitalism.
>> Concentrating so much economic [music]
power in the hands of so few was one
hell of a gamble. But it worked. South
Korea's GDP went from4 billion US in
1960 to almost two trillion today.
>> That's in the span of a generation.
Because they are so concentrated and
single-minded in their focus, they were
able to achieve basically miracles.
>> From transport to technology, retail to
real estate, the influence of the
shapables is everywhere.
If you wanted to avoid being involved in
the whole chaiball thing and to not buy
any of their products, would you be able
to?
>> You could try to live in the mountains
by yourself like a Buddhist monk,
[laughter] but unless uh you want to
live a normal life, it might be a bit
challenging to avoid all that.
>> You basically have to opt out of
society.
>> Yes.
>> So, how do people feel about them then?
Are people like broadly quite proud
about them or is it a bit more
complicated than that? Well, working at
a table company was definitely a matter
of pride back in the '60s '7s, but it's
2025 now. If you look at just the
typical work culture in one of these
corporations, it's not unusual for
people to work 14, 15 hours a day.
Sometimes it doesn't leave a lot of time
for people to, you know, get married and
have children.
Not everyone works for a shable, but a
work focused culture could help explain
[music] why South Korea now has one of
the lowest birth rates in the world.
>> That's one of the downsides of this tero
corporate dream. It has come at
significant personal costs for a lot of
individuals.
>> Such an interesting story here. You have
this extraordinary strategic idea to
concentrate economic power to [music]
back your winners. And it's risky, but
it totally works. You get this
unprecedented growth at this
unprecedented speed.
It does make you wonder why on earth was
South Korea in such a rush.
To understand where that urgency comes
from, I need to go back even further
to a time before this country even
existed.
South Korea's rise was no accident. It
was driven by two powerful yet distinct
forces. The first lies just [music]
across the border, the most secretive
nation on Earth, North Korea.
I want to get as close as I can and I
don't [music] have to travel far.
The border is just 50 km from Seoul.
So the first thing you should know about
South Korea is that this is a country
that [music] was born from a line on a
map quite literally because for
centuries the whole of the Korean
peninsula was this this single united
nation, right? It had a a shared
language, a shared culture, [music] this
this shared history. And then World War
II came and changed everything. [music]
For 35 years, the entire Korean
Peninsula had been under the harsh rule
of the Japanese. When they surrendered
at the end of World War II, it liberated
Korea.
But it left a power vacuum which caught
[music] the attention of the Americans
and the Soviets.
And that's when the real trouble began.
>> They came up with this temporary
solution where they would each take
trusteeship [music] of a different part
of the country. So the Soviets would
take the north and the Americans would
take the south. The question was where
do you draw the line?
That decision fell to this guy here.
This is Charles Bonesteel. At the time
he's this mid-ranking US colonel. He's
never been to Korea. So he takes a look
at the map and he's like, "Okay,
[clears throat] well, you know, there
aren't any very obvious geographical
markers here that I can use." So, um,
instead he just picks the simplest
solution possible. Got this line here,
the 38th parallel, the line of latitude
and he just goes with that.
It was a terrible place for a border. It
crossed 12 rivers, six railway lines,
over 300 roads, and separated [music]
countless families.
It was only supposed to be temporary,
but then these two governments formed,
and these two very different ideologies
took hold.
US backed capitalism in the south,
Sovietbacked communism in the north.
Each one claimed to be the one true
Korea.
And then in 1950, the North invaded,
starting a devastating [music]
war.
With American support, the South pushed
them back.
After 3 years and around 5 million
killed, an armistice was agreed.
But the war never officially ended.
The border remains now the most heavily
fortified on Earth. a 250 km long, 4 km
wide exclusion area known as the
demilitarized zone or DMZ with barbed
wire, [music]
landmines, and armed patrols on both
sides.
I think it would have been quite
difficult for Bone Steel to really
comprehend the profound consequences of
where he decided to put that line.
But I also think it's quite difficult to
comprehend how the DMZ, this this symbol
of division and of danger, could end up
becoming a tourist attraction.
Over a million visitors a year, mostly
South Korean, come here to trace the
fault line in this nation's story.
[music]
>> Crowds of tourists. Crazy.
There's even a gift shop. Your classic
[music] military apparel, military
leader bobbleheads, just in case you
weren't sure [music] whose side they
were on.
>> Just beyond here, thousands of troops
stand guard, including 20,000 from the
US.
The alliance endures because the threat
from the north has never really gone
away. Oh, wa, look at that hand grenade
wallets.
>> Who wouldn't want to leave with one of
those?
>> [music]
>> Just up the hill is a viewing platform
where the real world effect [music] of
this boundary is there for all to see.
Oh wow.
[music] Okay. South Korea on that side,
North Korea on that side. And the border
cuts through this river.
>> North Korea is a communist [music]
military dictatorship that has been
ruled by the Kim family for over 70
years.
Spot the difference. [music]
It's a bit like looking back in time.
>> Since their split, the two Koreas
[music] have chosen radically different
paths.
The North poured resources into [music]
its army, becoming militarily strong but
isolated,
while the South bet [music] on markets
and trade and is now rich, modern, and
thriving.
Now, if the war never ended, what's
stopping it from flaring back up again?
Let me explain.
This is a game of chicken. You got these
two cars that hurtling towards each
other, set for a head-on collision. Now,
if they do crash, both cars instantly
destroyed. It's what the military types
called mutually assured destruction. The
other option is for one car to swerve
away, avoiding catastrophe, but that
makes them a chicken, which for the
purposes of this game is a bad thing.
This car loses, the other one wins. Now,
if you do ever find yourself in this
situation, there is actually a strategy
that you can use to your advantage.
What you should do as you're hurtling
towards the other car is you should
wrench off your steering wheel and very
visibly hang it out [music] of the
window. It shows the other driver that
you can't back down. [music]
They carry straight on a crash is
guaranteed.
This is a classic example of game
theory, which is the study of strategies
and decisions that you use when you're
facing an adversary. And it's something
that plays out at the highest levels of
global power, including along this
border.
Remember those American troops?
[music]
They are the broken steering wheel.
Because if any of those American troops
get harmed, the Americans aren't going
to be able to ignore that. They're going
to have to come in and back up the South
Koreans. And the North Koreans, they
know this, which is why they don't
invade.
Both sides have lived on a knife edge
for decades.
But the threat from the North only
partly explains South Korea's urgency to
make its mark on the world stage. Plenty
of countries find their neighbors
difficult. Few get rich this quick and
become cultural icons too.
Here there is a second force at work.
[music]
To fully understand South Korea's
success, [music] I'm leaving the border
and going back to my map.
[music] There's this really interesting
Korean saying which is that when whales
fight, a shrimp's back gets broken. And
I think that's that's really how Koreans
have seen themselves as shrimp among
whales. It's a metaphor rooted in
geography. This here, this is the Korean
peninsula. You can see it is surrounded
by these three giants. Got China to the
north, got Russia, and then Japan over
to the east. The thing is that while
Korea's geography made it really
vulnerable, it also really forced it to
have this strong sense of self and and
and a belief that its survival while it
couldn't come down to its size. It it
would come down to its sense of
identity.
Alongside economic success, [music]
South Korea has built a powerful new
identity and with it global influence.
The shrimp has become a whale.
The economic muscle is evident and the
pride in sharing its culture with the
world. But identity is not just about
where you're going.
It's also where you've come from [music]
and what you choose to carry with you.
I've come to a vast training compound
dedicated to South Korea's official
national sport, Taekwondo.
That was one of the representative
kickings in Tawando.
>> I'm here with black belt instructor Kong
Yu Jin.
>> Training is very good for practicing
self control.
>> Many of these components originate
[music] from ancient martial arts, but
taekwondo itself isn't old at all. Their
timing is extraordinary. It was created
in the 1950s when South Korea was newly
formed and searching for a way to define
itself.
It only became an Olympic sport in 2000.
[music]
How real is this fight? Are they
actually trying to hit each other?
>> Yes.
>> Extraordinary.
Behind every move is relentless
practice, [music] pinpoint precision.
And you'll have to forgive me, even a
touch of physics. [screaming]
Allow me to give you a short lesson in
the physics of the tornado kick. [music]
First, what you do is you spin [music]
from one foot to the other, creating
some torque. That's a twisting force.
Then you flick up your standing leg and
at the same time bring in your arms to
increase the speed of rotation bit like
ice skaters do. [music] And then just at
that moment when you are airborne and
twisting as fast as you possibly can,
you flick up your trailing leg [music]
transferring all of that energy into one
single devastating kick.
I'm sorry. Okay. I couldn't help myself.
Now, Taekwondo isn't just a display of
skill.
It's built on values that I'm hoping
will tell me something crucial about
Korean identity.
And so, in the name of cultural [music]
understanding, I'm stepping into the
ring
>> in Tekondo. You're going to know how to
hold a fist first. Put your hand up.
This is chairman King Jong Hung.
>> Okay, just roll.
>> I've asked him to show me the mindset
behind the moves.
>> Ready?
>> One.
>> That's it. Oh, you're strong.
>> Thanks so much.
>> Ready? Yeah. Go. One, two, three, four.
That's it. Just like that.
>> Slopping.
>> Taekwond do is built on five key tenets.
>> The first is courtesy.
>> Before you fight, we always bow. This is
uh uh showing respect to each other.
Next comes integrity.
>> That's it. Just like that. Integrity is
pure mind. You're not going to hurt your
opponent.
>> You just help each other. So I'm
attacking physically, but this is
helping your training.
>> Then perseverance.
>> Slow motion. P. That's it. Okay.
>> The fourth is self-control.
Responding with thought as [music] well
as instinct.
When you're fighting or in competition,
are you kicking as hard as you can or
are you doing it with control?
>> It depends. Sometimes when I fight,
okay, I try not to kill by one shot.
>> Uhhuh.
>> Maybe I attract I lure you
>> Yeah.
>> to block to the body this way and then
really try to finish with this one to
the face. See
>> finally indomitable spirit.
>> Yeah.
The refusal to give in. A kind of moral
courage that stands firm no matter what.
>> Sometimes in tech on the training maybe
I get hurt, afraid, but spiritually you
feel confident.
>> These values have a lineage that dates
way back long before Korea was [music]
divided.
Two and a half thousand years ago, there
was an influential scholar in China
named Confucious.
He believed that good societies start
with respect, integrity, and a bit of
self-improvement.
>> In Korea, his ideas took hold, moving
from philosophy to government policy,
completely shaping how the country was
run.
>> So, is it like taekwond do is a
reflection [music]
of Korean ideals?
>> Yes. Yes. Tekwondo spirit and five
tenets are exactly we inherited from
[music] our ancestors. We are in the
middle of two big countries China and
Japan. So we need to be diligent. We
need to be prepared that become our
nation's characteristics.
>> These principles aren't just relics of
the past. They're still very much in
circulation.
Given that Taekwondo is so young and
that it's got these values as part of
it, I think it does tell you something
about how South Korea
wants to be seen by the rest of the
world.
>> You can see how this mindset might have
helped this once vulnerable nation
[music] to build a bold identity and
sell it to the world.
Of
course, it's one thing to have a strong
national identity, but how about those
neighboring whales? What happens when
Korean culture itself comes directly
under threat?
[music]
If you really want to understand a
country, look at what it eats. [music]
I've come to the snowy mountain town of
Waboo Up [music] to meet restaurant and
celebrity chef Lee Hayon
Lee. [laughter]
>> She's on a mission to protect [music]
Korea's most iconic dish. A spicy
fermented cabbage eaten here for more
than 3,000 years. Now [music] also found
in hipster fridges all over the world.
Kimchi
This is my favorite vegetable. I'm not
going to lie to you.
>> If anyone can tell me the secrets of
this unexpected global hit, it's Lee.
>> Here we go.
>> I know, but look, yours are on all nice
and straight and mine [music] were a bit
at an angle. All kimchi starts with
simple salted cabbage, but includes a
long list of other ingredients
and eye watering amounts of garlic and
chili.
But it's what happens next that makes
kimchi interesting. The color is
amazing.
Packed into ceramic pots, it's left to
ferment.
Naturally occurring bacteria [music]
will break down sugars, releasing an
acid that preserves the vegetables for
months.
So, how much of this do you make every
year?
>> 5,000 cabbages. Oh [music] my goodness.
Me.
>> Kimchi got people through harsh Korean
winters for thousands of [music] years.
But back in the early 20th century,
Japanese occupiers [music] suppressed
it, trying to erase the cultural
identity it symbolized. And though it
survived, [music]
now there is a new threat. One that
inspired Lee to take on the role of
kimchi grandmaster. [music]
The highest honor for those creating
this protected dish. Why did you want to
become a grandmaster?
>> [music]
>> Much [music] of it was coming from
China, but there it's made with
different ingredients and fermented at
speed.
Master Lee [music] is concerned these
imports might erode an essential part of
Korean life.
[music]
Why why is it so important then do you
think that the traditional way of making
kimchi is preserved?
[music]
Grand masters like Lee uphold the
authentic standards of Korean kimchi.
And for now, Korea remains the world
[music] leader, exporting to nearly 100
other countries. [music]
>> Let's see what all the fuss is about.
That's a good flavor. [music]
Delicious. Really delicious. I could eat
that all day.
I know on the surface this is just
fermented cabbage, but kimchi is so much
more than that. I mean, this is like the
perfect illustration of the shrimp and
the whale. This is this food that is
born from necessity, suppressed under
Japanese occupation, and then threatened
by Chinese imports. This is this food
that could be quite ordinary but instead
has become part of Korean identity and
has been taken by these really dedicated
grandmasters and totally perfected and
thus elevated [music]
into something extraordinary instead.
[music]
In Korea it's eaten with almost every
shared meal. But while kimchi brings
people together,
there [music] is a new food story here
that gives us an idea of what happens
when they drift apart.
>> What's mukbang?
>> Mukbang. Mukbang.
>> Thankfully, I've got Rebecca, [music]
our fixer, translator, and cultural
guide extraordinaire to fill me in.
>> It's basically watching someone who is
eating. So, it's a combination of mock
means eat in Korean and pong is a
shortened word for broadcast.
>> And that's exactly what these are.
Plenty of food and some rather noisy
eating.
This is so strange to me.
>> I don't get it.
>> No. Really?
>> No. Do you get it?
>> Yeah. I watch this often. Do you?
>> Yeah. Yeah.
At first, it was just people eating. And
then to stand out, streamers went bigger
and better with more food and more
slurping. What kind of numbers do these
[music] things go? It's
>> like 24 million for one video.
>> Wow.
>> Mukbang is really popular.
>> Why do you think that this has become a
big thing in Korea?
>> Firstly, we are so into eating that
that's our culture and also we don't eat
by ourselves usually. We had a very big
family in the past like we will eat with
our like parents or grandparents but
right now there's a lot of people who
lived alone and somehow this is a
companion for us when we're eating
because South Korea had this rapid
industrialization. [music]
It pulled millions into the cities and
that brought a profound shift in how
people live.
>> The families can't [music] always go
with them. So a lot of young people will
come by themselves and live alone for a
while. [music] A lot of people have
chosen to earn money instead of
families. The proportion of single
households has more than doubled since
[music] 2000. And it's for the young
professionals living alone that mukbang
resonates most.
[music] South Korean's quite hardworking
then. Yeah. We try to push oursel as
much as we can. I think [music]
>> so. You're you're a country of
workaholics living on their own.
Watching people eating noodles.
[laughter]
>> That seems [music] quite unusual. But
yes, somehow yes makes me feel a bit
sad.
>> The Shable's corporate dream has
certainly left its mark. Got to be
honest, I I don't think the slurpee
videos are for me. Uh but what I did
notice though is that this is something
that's happening all over the world,
right? loneliness, working long hours.
But even when there is a totally
unoriginal problem, this place still
manages to come up with a uniquely
Korean solution.
From downtime to dinner time, South
Koreans have reimagined the ordinary,
transforming many of life's little
[music] rituals. But for some, the past
can't be left behind. It's such a big
part of their lives that [music] it's
quite literally part of them.
[music]
For my final stop, I've left the
mainland for Korea's top holiday
destination, Jju Island.
Its stunning scenery has made the short
hop from Seoul one of the busiest flight
routes in the world with over 13 million
making the journey each year. But I'm
not here to lie on the beach.
I'm here to meet some of South Korea's
toughest women holding on to a way of
life that goes back generations. These
guys here, these are the legendary free
divers of South Korea. They're known as
the henyo, which translates literally as
sea women. And when they dive, they
don't use any oxygen. Just a single
breath that takes them down to the sea
floor where they collect up seafood to
be sold at the market.
These women free dive for [music] up to
6 hours a day through harsh winters,
even through pregnancy. It's a practice
that's barely changed in centuries. So,
in a country built on speed and
progress, why are they doing things the
old way? Hi.
>> This is Yong A and her crew.
>> How long have you been diving for?
>> Wow. So, you're the older you're the
you're the one who knows what they're
doing. [laughter]
>> You're going to put me to shame.
>> The water is a brisk 14° C.
>> Oh, this is so lovely.
>> Grateful for the wet suit.
Mildly less grateful for the water.
Oh, I'm there. [laughter]
>> As a beginner, I'll [music] be operating
strictly within flailing distance of the
shore. But normally, the hier swim up to
a kilometer out, diving around [music]
10 m to gather seaweed, alone, and sea
snails all by hand, making it a uniquely
sustainable way to fish.
What's that? A sea urchin. How do you
guys go straight down? It's crazy.
>> Even [music] in the shallows, I can't
seem to get anywhere near the bottom.
Yong makes it look easy.
Her secret is the ability to hold her
breath for an incredible 2 minutes.
It allows her to dive deeper than a
fivestory building, shift massive rocks,
and even [music] give me a helping hand.
By which I mean shove me firmly to the
seafloor.
I land my first catch, a sea snail.
Hardly the stuff of legends, but it
counts.
No one knows exactly when this practice
began, but around the 1600s, it started
to become an exclusively female
profession.
It's thought that heavy taxes on men's
earnings [music] encouraged women to
take on the work of harvesting seafood,
a role that's passed from mother to
daughter for centuries. [music]
I have exhausted. I don't know how they
do that for 6 hours.
This way of fishing still matters, not
just because it's old [music] or
sustainable,
but because it has fundamentally shaped
the people who do it.
So, Ju has a language that is distinct
from the mainland, and it's the woods
are much shorter, much more clipped, and
the locals say it's because the women
need to communicate very quickly when
they're out in the water. But also
because this population is quite
isolated and they've been doing this for
centuries and centuries, it looks like
there are some genetic differences
between the people here and elsewhere
that actually make them more skilled at
diving. So for instance, people here
have this gene that makes them less
susceptible to hypothermia and another
that lowers their blood pressure and
means that they are able to carry on
diving basically right up until they
give birth. Normally, by the way, diving
while pregnant is extremely dangerous.
The Henyo's bodies have adapted over
centuries to the demands of the water.
>> I think there's something quite poetic
about that living proof that while South
Korea, the nation, might be new, the
people, their resilience, their
determination,
they've been here all along.
What do the words mean?
>> [laughter]
>> The women work, the men drink. Why is it
so important to preserve this tradition?
[music]
The henyo are not part of the modern
Korean wave,
but their strength and pride and quiet
refusal to disappear are an embodiment
of the spirit that I have seen over and
over [music] again.
This is a place that has always known
that it's vulnerable. You know, it had
to to fight for its survival. And I
think when you're here, you can almost
tell that South Korea never had the
luxury of developing this neat
ideological identity over time. But that
hasn't held it back. In just 70 years,
South Korea has forged a new [music]
identity rapidly and under pressure.
Drawing on a mindset of discipline
[music]
and constant refinement, it met crisis
with strategy, used identity [music] as
a source of strength,
and shared its culture proudly with the
world. And I think that more than
anything is what's driven its rise.